Add 2022 report (#68)
openwebdocs/owd-website: pages/content/reports/2022/index.md

---
author: "Open Web Docs staff"
title: "Open Web Docs Impact and Transparency Report 2022"
date: "2023-02-22"
ShowToc: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: false
---

## Executive summary

> Open Web Docs (OWD) is an open source collective that employs technical writers to publicly document open web technologies. OWD currently employs 4 full time writers and one part time writer, all of whom have extensive experience with Web standards documentation and MDN Web Docs. The OWD team writes new documentation, updates existing documentation, and improves documentation infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open Web Docs (OWD) is an open source collective that employs technical writers to publicly document open web technologies. OWD currently employs 4 full time writers and one part time writer, all of whom have extensive experience with Web standards documentation and MDN Web Docs. The OWD team writes new documentation, updates existing documentation, and improves documentation infrastructure together with other organizations such as Mozilla, Google, or Microsoft, and external contributors.
```

Open Web Docs’ main focus has been contributions to [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org), the premier platform for Web platform documentation.

> In 2022, OWD writers were the main contributors to MDN Web Docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2022, OWD writers made major contributions to MDN Web Docs:
```

Reviewer 2: maybe "a key contributor" or something a little stronger?

Reviewer 3: "main" is correct here and we can be proud of it.

- OWD was the single organization with the greatest number of PRs merged to the MDN content repository.

> - OWD provided 60% of all pull request reviews to the MDN content repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- OWD provided 60% of all Pull Request (PR) reviews to the MDN content repository.
```

> - The OWD team executed a number of writing and documentation infrastructure projects, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The OWD team led a number of writing and documentation infrastructure projects, including:
```

>   - Modernizing the JavaScript used in thousands of code samples across MDN, ensuring all examples demonstrate modern best practices
>   - Creating and extending documentation to meet the needs identified in the [Interop 2022](https://web.dev/interop-2022/) project, including documenting CSS Colors and Cascade layers,
>   - Completely rewriting the documentation for the Performance APIs
>   - Rewriting CSS core principles of inheritance, specificity and the cascade.
>   - Documenting all ARIA roles and attributes,
>   - Making MDN more inclusive by ensuring all examples identify document language, have an appropriate character set, and are responsive, every image has alt text, and human names used in code examples better reflect the diversity of those reading MDN.
>   - Establishing [overall themes](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/blob/main/steering-committee/themes.md) for prioritized work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Modernizing the JavaScript used in thousands of code samples across MDN, ensuring all examples demonstrate modern best practices.
  - Creating and extending documentation to meet the needs identified in the [Interop 2022](https://web.dev/interop-2022/) project, including documenting CSS Colors and Cascade layers.
  - Completely rewriting the documentation for the Performance APIs.
  - Rewriting CSS core principles of inheritance, specificity and the cascade.
  - Documenting all ARIA roles and attributes.
  - Making MDN more inclusive by ensuring all examples identify document language, have an appropriate character set, and are responsive, every image has alt text, and human names used in code examples better reflect the diversity of those reading MDN.
  - Establishing [overall themes](https://github.com/openwebdocs/project/blob/main/steering-committee/themes.md) for prioritized work.
```

## What is MDN and why does it matter?

In 2022, OWD staff primarily worked on improving and extending [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org).

MDN is a website documenting front-end open web technologies, in particular JavaScript, CSS, HTML, HTTP, ARIA, SVG, MathML, and the JavaScript APIs available in web browsers.

MDN is the top destination for developers to learn about web technologies. It's not just a popular website for web developers, it is an essential tool that they consult on a daily basis in their work. It provides value to all organizations that depend on the web to any extent .

> - MDN is the second most cited documentation site on Stack Overflow, after learn.microsoft.com ([Source](https://meta.stackoverflow.com/questions/417189/which-sites-are-currently-linked-to-most-often-in-stack-overflow/417190#417190))
> - MDN is visited by 17 million developers every month
> - MDN's JavaScript, CSS, and HTML documentation are routinely seen as the standard language references
> - MDN is the only site with comprehensive reference documentation for the web platform APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- MDN is the second most cited documentation site on Stack Overflow, after learn.microsoft.com ([Source](https://meta.stackoverflow.com/questions/417189/which-sites-are-currently-linked-to-most-often-in-stack-overflow/417190#417190)).
- MDN is visited by 17 million developers every month.
- MDN's JavaScript, CSS, and HTML documentation are routinely seen as the standard language references.
- MDN is the only site with comprehensive reference documentation for the web platform APIs.
```

Do we have a source for the 17 million? It probably comes from Mozilla telemetry I guess. If so, it might be a good opportunity to say "MDN is visited by 17 million developers every month, according to Mozilla which provides the infrastructure for running MDN." Or something like this.

## MDN content maintenance

> Infrastructure and operational costs for operating and maintaining the MDN website at developer.mozilla.org are borne by Mozilla, but the largest and most valuable part of MDN is the content itself. The web platform is big and constantly evolving: MDN contains over 11,000 pages, and the content needs ongoing updating and maintenance as new web platform features are introduced and best practices change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MDN Web Docs website requires important ongoing maintenance and updates of both its infrastructure and its content to continue serving the million of web developers that use it each month.

While the website's infrastructure is maintained and improved by Mozilla, the content is operated as an open source project and receives contributions from OWD, Mozilla, Google, Microsoft, and other organizations, as well as thousands of external contributors each year.

The web platform is big and constantly evolving: MDN contains over 11,000 pages, and the content needs ongoing updating and maintenance as new web platform features are introduced and best practices change.
```

> MDN's content is maintained as an open source project with active contributors including Mozilla staff, Open Web Docs staff, various individuals paid by their employer to contribute, and a volunteer community.

Reviewer: The way that I tried rephrasing the previous paragraph might make this superfluous.

> Among these groups, Open Web Docs has been the primary maintainer of MDN content for the last two years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Among these groups, Open Web Docs has been a major maintainer of MDN content for the last two years.
```

Reflecting its reach and importance to developers, the main MDN content repository, https://github.com/mdn/content, is one of the most active repositories on GitHub. According to https://git-pulse.github.io/snapshots/, it has:

- the fifth most commits per month (2683)
- the seventh most committers per month (193)

> In 2022, 8231 pull requests (PRs) were merged to mdn/content, from 1693 contributors (excluding bots).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2022, 8231 pull requests (PRs) were merged to the mdn/content repository, from 1693 contributors (excluding bots).
```

The main organizations contributing pull requests were as follows:

| OWD  | Mozilla | W3C | Other |
| ---- | ------- | --- | ----- |
| 1211 | 614     | 258 | 6148  |

![PRs merged to mdn/content 2022 by origin](prs-content-2022.png)

> This tells us that OWD contributed twice as many PRs as any other organization, and that "Other" was by far the biggest category.

Reviewer: Consider removing this. The numbers speak for themselves I think.

The "Other" category is mostly individual volunteers, although it also includes some technical writers sponsored by other organizations to contribute to MDN. There's a very long tail of MDN contributors: 1293 of MDN contributors in 2022 - about three-quarters of the total - had only one merged PR in the year. However, MDN also has several extremely active volunteer contributors who make a big difference to the site.

Supporting this volunteer community is a major part of OWD's work. Sometimes this support consists simply of responding to PRs with review feedback, but the OWD team also plays a more active role, by leading projects in which we define what has to be done and breaking down tasks into manageable pieces, which are then implemented by volunteers. For example:

- The OWD project to modernize JavaScript code samples on MDN was executed through over 200 PRs, almost all contributed by volunteers.
- The OWD project to add meaningful `alt` attributes to all images on MDN followed a similar model. The `alt` attribute was added to images in all code examples, and over 500 images were made accessible.

In this way OWD acts as a force multiplier for the MDN project.

> One way to measure OWD's impact is to look at reviews of pull requests authored by the volunteer community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to measure OWD's impact is to look at reviews of pull requests (PRs) authored by the volunteer community.
```

PR reviews for the mdn/content repository are performed by members of the maintainer group, which consists of OWD staff, Mozilla staff, W3C staff, and a select group of volunteer maintainers. Of the 7289 reviews of PRs from volunteer contributors that were merged to mdn/content in 2022, the review breakdown is as follows:

| OWD  | Mozilla | W3C  | Other |
| ---- | ------- | ---- | ----- |
| 4831 | 744     | 1083 | 631   |

![Reviews of volunteer PRs merged to mdn/content 2022 by origin](reviews-content-2022.png)

> In other words, OWD performed 2/3 of all reviews of PRs from the volunteer community.

Reviewer: Maybe consider removing this sentence too, as the numbers speak for themselves.

## Browser compatibility data maintenance

> After mdn/content, the mdn/browser-compat-data project is the biggest part of MDN. This project maintains machine-readable data on browser support for web platform features. This powers the MDN website as well as other tools like [Can I use](https://CanIUse.com), Firefox Developer Tools, and VS Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [mdn/browser-compat-data](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/) project is the second biggest part of MDN, after the content itself. This project maintains machine-readable data about browser support for web platform features. This powers the MDN website as well as other tools like [Can I use](https://CanIUse.com), Firefox Developer Tools, and VS Code.
```

This shows that contributions are roughly split equally between OWD, Mozilla, and everyone else.

This view obscures the massive contribution of [Vinyl Da.i'gyu-Kazotetsu](https://github.com/queengooborg), who alone was responsible for slightly more than half the total contributions to the project. Vinyl is employed by both OWD and Mozilla, so we have simply split her contributions between the two organizations.

PR reviews for the mdn/browser-compat-data repository are performed by peers and owners of the project, who are listed in the project’s [governance document](https://github.com/mdn/browser-compat-data/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md).

Of the 990 reviews of PRs from volunteer contributors that were merged to mdn/browser-compat-data in 2022, the review breakdown is as follows:.

| OWD | Mozilla | W3C | Google | Other |
| --- | ------- | --- | ------ | ----- |
| 536 | 390     | 13  | 48     | 3     |

![Reviews of volunteer PRs merged to mdn/browser-compat-data 2022 by origin](reviews-bcd-2022.png)

Again, Vinyl Da.i'gyu-Kazotetsu was responsible for more than half of all reviews, and again, we have split her contributions between the OWD and Mozilla.

## MDN projects

> This section presents a qualitative assessment of the impact of Open Web Docs on MDN, by focusing on some of the projects led by OWD in 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section focuses on some of the projects led by OWD in 2022.
```

The introduction of Performance Observers has been key to this family of APIs. So, much like you’d expect the use of Promises in JavaScript docs these days, we have modernized the Performance API docs to talk about Performance Observers. At same time we clearly marked features of the old Performance APIs as deprecated or deleted content for removed APIs entirely.

In 2023 we’re aiming to finish this project by updating the guide pages that live next to the Performance API reference pages.

### Interop 2022

Interop is a cross-browser initiative to address important web platform interoperability features. Browser vendors all implemented the [Interop 2022](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2022/03/interop-2022/) priorities they agreed upon. The OWD team ensured all the new and updated features were documented. Projects included:

> - Worked with MDN to develop new cascade layer documentation, and in the process wrote or rewrote all the !important, specificity, and cascade and inheritance documentation; the most visited CSS pages on MDN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Worked with MDN staff to develop new cascade layer documentation, and in the process wrote or rewrote all the !important, specificity, and cascade and inheritance documentation; the most visited CSS pages on MDN.
```

> - Revamp MDN CSS color documentation to include new CSS Color spaces and CSS color functions (OWD project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Revamp MDN CSS color documentation to include new CSS Color spaces and CSS color functions.
```

- Retained key talent, including some of the original architects of MDN, and engaged them on core projects that have
  - Grown the impact of web documentation by making it more relevant, contextual, and available for everyday developers
  - Reinforced the collective community management and caretaking of web platform documentation - no single company could begin to recreate these resources, or manage them alone
  - Supported new contributors, mentoring tomorrow’s top-class tech talent on best practices and content development at web scale
- Spread collective responsibility and investment in common digital infrastructure among multiple vendors, which
  - Reduces risk to the project
  - Increases visibility and “ownership” behaviors among invested parties
  - Strengthens reliability, longevity, and trustworthiness
  - Reduces costs
- Improved breadth and quality of the information and data on
  - Core reference documentation
  - Browser Compatibility

>   - Hot-topic technologies for next generation application development such as AR/VR, security, and privacy-protecting technologies

Reviewer 3: I think we can leave out AR/VR here given WebXR was a focus of 2021 and not 2022. We are still working on documenting new tech, though.

```suggestion
  - Hot-topic technologies for next generation application development, security, and privacy-protecting technologies
```

- Leonardo Kewitz
- Lifina
- lim
- Logan Henrie
- Marcus Weiner
- Mark Reeves
- Mark Reeves
- Martijn Arts
- Masataka Yakura
- Matt Lindeboom
- Michael Leggett
- Michael[tm] Smith
- Microsoft Edge
- Milica Mihajlija
- mimonelu
- Mitchell Harris
- Moto Ishizawa
- Nazar Mokrynskyi
- neuland - Büro für Informatik
- Open Collective
- Open Collective
- Oskar Oldorf
- Oussama Romdhane
- Owen Valentine
- Patrick Kettner
- Paul Kinlan
- Pelle Wessman
- Pete LePage
- Peter Antonius
- Peter deHaan
- Peter Rushforth
- Pia Mancini
- Rad Web Hosting
- Rick Byers
- Robert Ma
- Romulo Cintra
- Russell Beattie
- Ryan Prior
- Sam Chen
- Samsung Internet
- Scott Hallock
- Scott Kennedy
- Sebastian Zartner
- Sergio Moraes
- Sharat M R
- Shinichi Segawa
- simochee
- Stephanie Eckles
- Stilyan Mihalev
- Surma
- Takayuki Shimada
- takehiroman
- Thomas Berntsen
- Thomas Steiner
- tim richardson
- Tom Leen
- Tom Leo
- Tomasz Kleszczewski
- tomita
- Tommy Williams
- Tsubasa Nomura
- Tyler Wilcock
- Type of Web
- Victor Neo
- Vincent Ramdhanie
- Vladimir Ivanenko
- Xidorn Quan
- Yasuhiro Яша Asaka
- Yoichi Fujimoto
- Yu Matsuzawa (ymtszw)
- Yuhei Yasuda
- Yukio Arita

## Looking forward to 2023

> In 2023, OWD is excited to continue to work very closely with Mozilla on MDN Web Docs. At the end of 2022, Mozilla and OWD created a [shared and open roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/mdn/projects/26/) for ongoing and planned work. With the help of this tool, the Open Web Docs team will collaborate actively and give direct input even more on MDN’s information architecture, compatibility data, content structures, code examples, and other changes coming impacting all sections of the MDN Web Docs site.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In 2023, OWD is excited to continue to work very closely with Mozilla on MDN Web Docs. At the end of 2022, Mozilla and OWD created a [shared and open roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/mdn/projects/26/) for ongoing and planned work. The new shared roadmap will foster an even more active collaboration between OWD, Mozilla, and the rest of the MDN Web Docs community. It will also create more opportunities for OWD to provide inputs on crucial topics such as: MDN's information architecture, compatibility data, code example, and other changes coming impacting all sections of the MDN Web Docs site.
```

---
author: "Open Web Docs staff"
title: "Open Web Docs Impact and Transparency Report 2022"

> date: "2023-02-22"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
date: "2023-03-08"
```

ShowToc: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: false
---

## Executive summary

> Open Web Docs (OWD) is an open source collective that employs technical writers to publicly document open web technologies. OWD currently employs 4 full time writers and one part time writer, all of whom have extensive experience with Web standards documentation and MDN Web Docs. The OWD team writes new documentation, updates existing documentation, and improves documentation infrastructure together with other organizations such as Mozilla, Google, or Microsoft, and external contributors.

Reviewer 4: Add W3C to list in last sentence

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Open Web Docs (OWD) is an open source collective that employs technical writers to publicly document open web technologies. OWD currently employs 4 full time writers and one part time writer, all of whom have extensive experience with Web standards documentation and MDN Web Docs. The OWD team writes new documentation, updates existing documentation, and improves documentation infrastructure together with other organizations such as Mozilla, Google, or Microsoft, W3C, and external contributors.
```

MDN is a website documenting front-end open web technologies, in particular JavaScript, CSS, HTML, HTTP, ARIA, SVG, MathML, and the JavaScript APIs available in web browsers.

MDN is the top destination for developers to learn about web technologies. It's not just a popular website for web developers, it is an essential tool that they consult on a daily basis in their work. It provides value to all organizations that depend on the web to any extent .

- MDN is the second most cited documentation site on Stack Overflow, after learn.microsoft.com ([Source](https://meta.stackoverflow.com/questions/417189/which-sites-are-currently-linked-to-most-often-in-stack-overflow/417190#417190)).
- MDN is visited by 17 million developers every month.
- MDN's JavaScript, CSS, and HTML documentation are routinely seen as the standard language references.
- MDN is the only site with comprehensive reference documentation for the web platform APIs.

## MDN content maintenance

The MDN Web Docs website requires important ongoing maintenance and updates of both its infrastructure and its content to continue serving the million of web developers that use it each month.

> While the website's infrastructure is maintained and improved by Mozilla, the content is operated as an open source project and receives contributions from OWD, Mozilla, Google, Microsoft, and other organizations, as well as thousands of external contributors each year.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While the website's infrastructure is maintained and improved by Mozilla, the content is operated as an open source project and receives contributions from OWD, Mozilla, Google, Microsoft, W3C, and other organizations, as well as thousands of external contributors each year.
```

- MDN is the second most cited documentation site on Stack Overflow, after learn.microsoft.com ([Source](https://meta.stackoverflow.com/questions/417189/which-sites-are-currently-linked-to-most-often-in-stack-overflow/417190#417190)).
- MDN is visited by 17 million developers every month.
- MDN's JavaScript, CSS, and HTML documentation are routinely seen as the standard language references.
- MDN is the only site with comprehensive reference documentation for the web platform APIs.

## MDN content maintenance

The MDN Web Docs website requires important ongoing maintenance and updates of both its infrastructure and its content to continue serving the million of web developers that use it each month.

While the website's infrastructure is maintained and improved by Mozilla, the content is operated as an open source project and receives contributions from OWD, Mozilla, Google, Microsoft, and other organizations, as well as thousands of external contributors each year.

The web platform is big and constantly evolving: MDN contains over 11,000 pages, and the content needs ongoing updating and maintenance as new web platform features are introduced and best practices change.

> MDN's content is maintained as an open source project with active contributors including Mozilla staff, Open Web Docs staff, various individuals paid by their employer to contribute, and a volunteer community.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
